Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a crime, drama,
horror film from 2009, titled The Loved Ones.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The film opens with Brent, a teenage boy
driving through the countryside with his
father Dan in his old car. While teasing each
other over the state of the vehicle and their
tastes in music, Dan takes out and lights
a cigarette, which Brent disapproves of.
Distracted by his father's actions, Brent doesn't
see the person standing in the middle of the road
until Dan calls attention to him. Brent manages
to dodge the stranger at the last second,
but the car crashes against a tree, killing Dan.
Six months later, we find Brent at school chatting
with his best friend Jamie. They discuss their
plans for prom, and Jamie shares some plant and
protection with Brent, encouraging his friend
to have fun. The moment is interrupted when a
classmate of theirs and certified goth, Mia, walks
in to use her locker, completely ignoring the
presence of both boys next to her. Jamie stares
at her, speechless and obviously infatuated.
After Mia leaves, Brent nudges into Jamie
following her, and he does exactly that,
only to return seconds later with exciting
news: she's accepted his invitation to prom.
Another girl walks in then: Lola, a shy-looking
gal, who asks Brent to go to prom with her.
Brent turns her down as politely as he can
since he's going with Holly, his girlfriend.
Lola doesn't react, but she's
quite obviously not pleased.
After classes are done, Brent leaves the
school to meet with Holly at the doors,
who offers a ride because she's finally passed
her driving test. Brent asks her to guess who
has invited him to the dance but doesn't offer
an answer. They end up making out in Holly's car,
where she keeps asking for the answer to his
previous question. He doesn't reply at first,
asking for more layers of clothes to be lost
before he replies. When Holly takes off his shirt,
we get to see various scars on Brent's body
and a razor blade hanging on his necklace.
Cutting and smoking seem to be the method Brent
has chosen to deal with the trauma and guilt
left by his father's death. As their making out
becomes more intimate, the couple becomes unaware
of their surroundings and, most importantly, of
the fact Lola is outside the car watching them
through the window with increasing irritation.
A couple of hours later, Holly drives Brent to
his house and asks him if he should pick him up
there for prom, since his mother doesn't know
she's gotten her license yet. It seems Brent and
cars are a touchy topic in the household, but he
promises he'll tell her later. He doesn't return
Holly's "I love you" but as he gets off the car,
he finally shares with her the answer to his
question: it was Lola who invited him to prom.
After Holly is gone, he enters his
house and goes directly to his room,
where he is writing some stuff down in the dark
while listening to heavy metal music. His mother,
Carla, interrupts him, expressing disapproval when
she learns Holly will be driving Brent to prom.
The way she words things makes Brent think
she blames him for his father's death.
Feeling angry and frustrated after such a talk,
Brent leaves the house together with his dog,
heavy metal music playing on his earbuds and the
necklace held so tightly in his fist that it hurts
him. He should be getting ready for prom (as we
see Holly doing in her own place) but instead
he enters a rocky, isolated area where he starts
climbing a cliff and enjoying the thrill of the
danger. Once he makes it to the top, he smokes
while listening to his music, which doesn't allow
him to hear his dog barking angrily at something.
His mother tries to reach him on his phone, but he
ignores the call just as a figure approaches him
from behind and covers his face with a piece of
cloth, intending to knock him out. Brent tries to
fight back with no luck and during the struggle,
his phone is kicked away. The stranger
takes a sleeping Brent away on their truck.
Meanwhile, back in town, Jamie is picking Mia up
at her house. She doesn't look very excited at
the prospect of prom, only getting more annoyed
when her mother and father -a police officer-
ask them to wait so they can take a picture. In
another part of town, we see a very excited Holly
arriving at Brent's place, only to be approached
by his mother, who a moment ago was at the cliffs,
worriedly looking for her son. She asks Holly
if she's seen Brent, but we all know she hasn't.
Night falls. Jamie and Mia
are on their way to prom.
Holly and Carla continue to try to
reach Brent on the phone to no avail,
but they finally get a clue when they hear whining
outside: Brent's dog is back and he's quite hurt.
Carla calls Mia's father, Mr. Valentine, to tell
him about what happened, but the cop doesn't take
her seriously at first since Brent disappears
for hours often. During this conversation,
his wife shows obvious distress, as if this
brought back old, painful memories. Mr. Valentine
changes his mind and takes the problem seriously
when Carle tells him their dog had been stabbed.
Said dog is now in Holly's car, who is trying
to take him to the vet while Carla talks to
the police officer, but she stops the car when
she realized the dog hasn't survived the trip.
Two different cars are followed next: first,
Jamie's. He and Mia have made it to prom and
they enter the school ground together, although
Mia is obviously not in her best condition. The
other car is the truck that kidnapped Brent,
which is stopped in the middle of the road so
its driver can pick up the dead animal. The
truck then goes on until they make it to a
house in the middle of the countryside, and
when the canvas covering the back is lifted,
the kidnappers are finally revealed: it's Lola
and her father, Eric. Lola is worried that Brent
may've died but Eric checks his pulse and assures
her he isn't, which makes her bend over Brent
and check herself by putting her ear on his chest
and making sounds to the rhythm of his heartbeat.
Lola and Eric enter the house, carrying
Brent with them. Lola goes to her very
unsettling and honestly kinda creepy room to
update her scrapbook with a picture of Brent.
Her father interrupts her when he brings him a
gift: a pink dress and a pair of shoes to match.
He intends to leave while she changes but she
asks him to stay so he can tell her how she looks,
which ends up with Eric giving her daughter's
undressed very inappropriate glances.
They go to the dining room then, where Brent is
waking up to find this strange house decorated to
simulate prom. He's been changed into a suit
and tied to a chair in front of table where
other three people -also dressing rather nicely-
sit: Lola, Eric and a woman with a round scar on
her forehead that Lola calls Bright Eyes. She
seems to be out of it. Eric leaves his seat to
grab Brent so Lola can inject bleach into his
throat to destroy his vocal cords. They smile
and tease Brent while doing it, as if it was just
a cute little game. After the injection is done,
Lola sits on Brent's lap and asks her dad for
a picture. Eric takes it, but asks for a second
one together with Bright Eyes. Lola isn't happy
with this idea but accepts anyway. Bright Eyes is
dragged onto Brent's lap as well, and she yells
when Lola pulls her hair for the photograph.
Back in the school, Jamie and Mia drink and smoke
inside the car while listening to heavy metal,
not joining the party just yet. In contrast to
this, we see Lola's house again, where she and
her father are enjoying take-out chicken while
Brent tries to undo the knots of the rope that
ties him and Bright Eyes stares at nothing. Lola
finds a wishbone in her chicken and offers it
to her dad to make a wish together - Eric wins it
and, even when he swears he's made a wish for her,
Lola is not amused. Incredibly annoyed, Lola asks
her father who looks prettier: she or Bright Eyes.
Feeling stuck between a rock and a hard place,
Eric replies that both look pretty, which makes
Lola even angrier. She starts force-feeding
chicken and milk to Bright Eyes and, when she
realized Brent is watching, decides to try to do
the same to him while using baby talk. Since Brent
won't open his mouth for her, Eric stands up and
goes to pick a hammer that he brings back to the
table as a threat. It works, Brent nods his answer
to Lola's "isn't finger-licking good?" question.
He also asks for the toilet, and Lola tells
him he'll be allowed to go if he licks her
finger first. He obeys, and the not-so-innocent
enjoyment Lola is getting from it causes her
jealous dad to stop them. Brent still needs to go
to the toilet (or so he claims, since he's most
likely attempting to escape) but Lola, instead of
taking him to the bathroom, chugs a glass of milk
and then holds against his now open zipper so he
can pee in it. When Brent doesn't manage to do so,
he gets threatened again for possibly lying:
he must pee before Lola counts to ten or her
dad will nail him to the chair with the hammer he
used to hurt his dog. Brent pulls it off by nine.
When Lola gets closer and threatens to cut his
member, Brent kicks her back as he finally manages
to free his hands from the ropes. He hops his way
out of the house, since his legs are still tied,
and hides under Eric's truck to have a hidden
place where to cut the remaining rope off with
his razor blade. Eric leaves the house
and when he doesn't see Brent around,
hops inside the truck to give him chase.
Brent rolls away when the engine is turned on,
believing to be safe now, but Eric pulls back and
the truck lights instantly fall on his victim.
Brent runs away and climbs a tree where the truck
crashes when Eric goes after him. He walks around
the tree without knowing what to do, but Lola
arrives then with a flashlight that allows them
to see Brent clearly among vthe branches. They
start throwing rocks at him, laughing and clearly
enjoying his pain, until Brent finally falls,
first hitting the truck and then the ground.
They take him back to the house, where he's tied
to a chair again. Eric proceeds to hammer a knife
on Brent's feet as punishment for hitting Lola.
At first Lola just watches, but then she moves
to sit on Brent's lap, asking him to cry. But he
doesn't, which makes her frustrated and angry.
At the same time, Mr Valentine is
investigating the cliff and finds
Brent's phone and music player, which he takes
back to Carla, who is waiting in her house with
Holly and telling him how Brent believes she
blames him for the accident, but she doesn't.
Back with Brent, who's been sitted between Eric
and Lola and must endure how she shows him her
creepy scrapbook. It's not just an album
of memories, there are pictures of all the
boys they've kidnapped and tortured for their
fake proms through the years. One in particular
calls his attention: Timmy Valentine, the only
one that managed to escape - Brent immediately
recognizes him: it's the guy that had stood in
the middle of the road and caused the accident
that killed his dad. Anger eats him from
inside: it's all Eric's and Lola's fault.
Lola tells her dad he's ready to draw on Brent,
and after a quick cut to the school to see that
Jaime and Mia still haven't left the car, we see
the results of Lola's "drawing": using a fork,
she's carved their initials inside a heart on
Brent's chest. Both her and Eric proceed to
throw salt at the wound, making Brent scream and
wiggle in pain while they make fun of him for it.
While Brent is being punished, her mom is still
in their house, waiting for news. Same for Holly,
who finds the card Brent had prepared for her and
contained the words "I love you" that he owed her.
And at school, Jaime and Mia finally
decide to leave the car, even if Mia
can barely stand, not feeling very well.
It's time for the coronation at Lola's
prom. She's the queen, of course, and Brent
is named king. All of them get paper crowns,
even Eric, who takes a picture of the royal couple
before his daughter decides to play some music.
It's the actual school dance we see first,
though: Mia and Jaime are slow dancing together,
and Mia starts touching Jaime's groin, getting
stares from everyone around them and the attention
of a teacher, who kicks them out of the party.
Meanwhile, Lola is trying to dance with Brent as
well while her father throws glitter at them. She
explains to him that the song they're listening
to is the one she wants to be played during her
wedding, which she'll have when she finally finds
her prince. Brent isn't her prince, however, so
she asks her dad to dance with her instead. Lola
tells Eric he is her prince, always has been, and
there will be nobody good enough to ever replace
him. She closes her eyes and leans in for a kiss
- Eric hesitates at first, but as he gives up and
leans in to kiss Lola, they're cut off by Brent
making noise - he's noticed his razor blade on the
chair and he's sat on it on purpose to hide it.
We cut to Holly again then, who is talking to
Mr Valentine - the cop promises he's sent out an
investigation team and will contact her if he has
any news. Holly returns to Brent's room and, after
failing to contact her mother on the phone because
of the late hours, she cries her heart off.
At Lola's, we see Eric chopping the head off the
roadkill they picked up later and passing the body
to his daughter before grabbing a bucket of water.
Under Brent's watching eyes and while he tries
once again to cut the rope with his blade,
they go into the living room and move the
carpet to reveal a secret door on the floor.
Screeching from various creatures can be
heard when they open it to feed them with
the animal and throw the water at them.
A little image parallelism occurs then:
Eric leaves the house to grab his tools at
the same time a professor leaves the school
to find Jaime and Mia making love inside the car.
After the couple is kicked out by their teacher,
we go back to Eric, who hands his electric drill
to Lola so she can drill a hole on Brent's head.
After doing so twice, they start pouring hot
water into it, revealing the procedure behind what
happened to Bright Eyes: lobotomization. Luckily
Brent manages to finish cutting the rope tying
his hand before they're done, and he pushes them
away from him before grabbing the falling drill to
cut the rope on his ankles, then proceeds to use
to knife he takes off his feet to use it on Eric
repeatedly. Furious, Carla jumps on him, but he
manages to shake her off before going after Eric.
He pushes him inside the pit and watches how
the creatures -who turn out to be the previous
lobotomized victims- feed on him. As Brent
stares at the horrifying scene in front of
him with disgust, Lola approaches him from behind
and pushes him into the pit as well. Getting even
angrier when she realizes she can't save her dad,
she starts throwing things into the pit before
closing it. Some of those things turn out to be
the flashlight and the hammer, which Brent uses
to defend himself from the other victims, leaving
him as the only living being left in there.
Back in town, Jaime takes an
exhausted Mia back to her house,
trying not to look suspicious or awkward in front
of her father. Another parallelism occurs here:
as Lola checks on Bright Eyes, Mr Valentine
goes inside the house to check on Mia,
who is crying in her bedroom, wondering why "he"
isn't found. He goes back to his own bedroom then,
and he tells his wife Mia is fine while looking
at a picture on his night table: it's Timmy
Valentine, the victim that escaped - his son and
Mia's brother, the boy she's asking to be found.
Another revelation happens while Lola puts a
pillow on Bright Eye's face to get rid of her:
the woman had been Lola's mother. Speaking of
revelations, Holly has one while sleeping on
Brent's bed: he remembers him mentioning Lola's
failed invitation to prom, so she decides to call
Mr Valentine and inform him of this. Mr Valentine
quickly gets in his car and drives to Lola's
house, where he breaks in after seeing the blood
on the floor through the window. He manages to
find the pit thanks to the noises Brent is making
by throwing bones at the doors, but right after he
opens it, Lola appears behind him and pushes
him in as he did with Brent. She walks back
when he tries to shoot her with the officer's
gun then grabs the knife and Brent's necklace,
which she puts around her own neck. Before leaving
the house, she tells Brent that she'll go after
Carla and Holly to hurt them like Brent hurt her
and her dad. The doors of the pit are left open.
Morning comes. Brent is still in the pit, and
after watching the piles of bones for a while,
he gets an idea. As this happens, Lola is walking
along the road, barefoot, shoes and scrapbook one
hand, knife on the other. When she sees a car in
the distance she quickly realizes that's Holly,
who never heard back from Mr Valentine. She
throws the scrapbook at her car to make her
stop then jumps in to attack Holly.
While the girls struggle in a fight,
Brent is creating a pile of bones and bones that
help him climb out of the pit. He wastes no time
in escaping by using the police car Mr Valentine
had arrived with, driving at an insane speed. In a
matter of seconds, he makes it to the spot on the
road where Lola is chasing Holly - Brent quickly
recognizes his girlfriend and drives around her,
hitting Lola instead. As soon as he stops the car,
Holly gets inside and cries when she realizes
who is driving. They take a moment to reunite
and bask in each other's presence, but they're
interrupted by the painful groans of Lola, who
is dragging herself on the road behind them, knife
still in hand because she still wants her revenge.
Brent sees her and after sharing a look with
Holly, he doesn't hesitate: he starts the car
to run over her. Lola watches her end come to
her in slow motion. With the danger and horrors
finally over, Brent drives back to his home, where
he and Holly reunite with Carla in a tight hug.